README.md, before:

# MODELS2023-ReplicationPackage
Replication package for submission #5 at MODELS 2023.

## Paper abstract:
Managing inconsistency across models and development artifacts is always a difficult task. The situation is even more complex in large industrial settings, due to some of their practicalities, such as the common use of rather informal models in their designs, the existence of very large sets of loosely connected artifacts, and the difficulty of precisely defining consistency rules among them. Additionally, the development of these large software-intensive systems is riddled with uncertainty, which cannot be avoided. Recent research has focused on means to make certain types of uncertainty explicit and allow reasoning about them. In this work, we explore how we can assist engineers in managing in a lightweight way both consistency and design uncertainty during the creation and maintenance of models and other development artifacts. We identify the types of design uncertainty and inconsistency to be addressed in two concrete industrial settings and show a prototype implementation of our approach to calculating the uncertainty and inconsistency in these cases. We show how making design uncertainty explicit can help tolerate inconsistencies with high uncertainty, prioritize inconsistencies with low associated uncertainty, and uncover previously hidden potential inconsistencies.

## Repository contents:
This repository has the following files:
- Uncertainty.use -- This file shows how we use the implementation of subjective logic operators in the modeling tool "USE" to obtain the contents of Table 1 in the paper. The results are then used in LookupTables.py.
- Implementation -- Folder containing the implementation, including input and output files.
    - Grammars
        - architecture.tx -- TextX grammar used to capture the contents of the examples in a uniform way in textual models
        - uncertainty.tx -- TextX grammar used to capture the expressions of doubt.
    - Textual models (Input)
        - SysMLexample.arch -- Textual model of the setting of example 1, in Figure 1, following architecture.tx.
        - PLexample.arch -- Textual model of the setting of exmaple 2, in Figure 2, following architecture.tx.
    - Expressions of degrees of doubt (Input)
        - Example1-SysML-CPP.uncertainty -- File containing doubts expressed in example 1, following the grammar defined in uncertainty.tx.
        - Example2-ProductLine.uncertainty -- File containig doubts expressed in example 2, following the grammar defined in uncertainty.tx.
    - Code
        - ConsistencyCheckingInfo.py -- Contains the consistency rules and propagation rules for degrees of doubt.
        - Helpers.py -- Contains some to_string functions
        - LookupTables.py -- Instead of directly calling subjective logic operations, we use these lookup tables to simplify the implementation.
        - UncertaintyCalculations.py -- In its current form, contains the implementation needed to run the approach for demo 1 and demo 2.
    - Results (Output)
        - output-example-1.txt -- Result of running ConsistencyCheckingInfo with SysMLexample.arch and Example1-SysML-CPP.uncertainty as input, and when running with the consistency and propagation rules from setting 1.
        - output-example-2.txt -- Result of running ConsistencyCheckingInfo with PLexample.arch and Example2-ProductLine.uncertainty as input, and when running with the consistency and propagation rules from setting 2.
    
## Python
We're using Python 3.7 and [TextX](https://github.com/textX/textX).

Commit message:

update README to include USE download link

README.md, after:

# MODELS2023-ReplicationPackage
Replication package for submission #5 at MODELS 2023.

## Paper abstract:
Managing inconsistency across models and development artifacts is always a difficult task. The situation is even more complex in large industrial settings, due to some of their practicalities, such as the common use of rather informal models in their designs, the existence of very large sets of loosely connected artifacts, and the difficulty of precisely defining consistency rules among them. Additionally, the development of these large software-intensive systems is riddled with uncertainty, which cannot be avoided. Recent research has focused on means to make certain types of uncertainty explicit and allow reasoning about them. In this work, we explore how we can assist engineers in managing in a lightweight way both consistency and design uncertainty during the creation and maintenance of models and other development artifacts. We identify the types of design uncertainty and inconsistency to be addressed in two concrete industrial settings and show a prototype implementation of our approach to calculating the uncertainty and inconsistency in these cases. We show how making design uncertainty explicit can help tolerate inconsistencies with high uncertainty, prioritize inconsistencies with low associated uncertainty, and uncover previously hidden potential inconsistencies.

## Repository contents:
This repository has the following files:
- Uncertainty.use -- This file shows how we use the implementation of subjective logic operators in the modeling tool "USE" to obtain the contents of Table 1 in the paper. The results are then used in LookupTables.py. This USE model makes use of subjective logic operators. Therefore it should be executed with the extended version of USE that supports these operators, which is publically available for download. [Download USE here](https://atenea.lcc.uma.es/downloads/SubjectiveLogic/USE-Uncertainty.zip).
- Implementation -- Folder containing the implementation, including input and output files.
    - Grammars
        - architecture.tx -- TextX grammar used to capture the contents of the examples in a uniform way in textual models
        - uncertainty.tx -- TextX grammar used to capture the expressions of doubt.
    - Textual models (Input)
        - SysMLexample.arch -- Textual model of the setting of example 1, in Figure 1, following architecture.tx.
        - PLexample.arch -- Textual model of the setting of exmaple 2, in Figure 2, following architecture.tx.
    - Expressions of degrees of doubt (Input)
        - Example1-SysML-CPP.uncertainty -- File containing doubts expressed in example 1, following the grammar defined in uncertainty.tx.
        - Example2-ProductLine.uncertainty -- File containig doubts expressed in example 2, following the grammar defined in uncertainty.tx.
    - Code
        - ConsistencyCheckingInfo.py -- Contains the consistency rules and propagation rules for degrees of doubt.
        - Helpers.py -- Contains some to_string functions
        - LookupTables.py -- Instead of directly calling subjective logic operations, we use these lookup tables to simplify the implementation.
        - UncertaintyCalculations.py -- In its current form, contains the implementation needed to run the approach for demo 1 and demo 2.
    - Results (Output)
        - output-example-1.txt -- Result of running ConsistencyCheckingInfo with SysMLexample.arch and Example1-SysML-CPP.uncertainty as input, and when running with the consistency and propagation rules from setting 1.
        - output-example-2.txt -- Result of running ConsistencyCheckingInfo with PLexample.arch and Example2-ProductLine.uncertainty as input, and when running with the consistency and propagation rules from setting 2.
    
## Python
We're using Python 3.7 and [TextX](https://github.com/textX/textX).
